---
layout: post
title: Future-Proof Open-Source Platform Hosting Millions of Websites for Your.Online
authors: [ivet]
tags: [case-studies]
slug: future-proof-open-source-platform
---

<a href="/blog/future-proof-open-source-platform"><img src="/img/imported/4d7d7c8f-3951-4d15-9340-b1360357d6f7" alt="banner.png" width="750" height="393" /></a>

[Your.Online](https://your.online/) is a team of pioneers from all over the
world united by the passion for helping businesses succeed online. Their teams
of local experts provide highly standardized managed services to high-intent
customers to reach their full online potential. The group serves over 1 million
customers and generates €175m in revenue with its eight brands and 600
employees.

<!-- truncate -->

Your.Online needed to build a centralized IaaS cloud platform for four of their
brands - Versio, Yourhosting, Savvii and Axarnet. The four companies ran on
different infrastructure platforms using technologies like VMware, RHEV, Xen
server, Virtuozzo, Proxmox, custom-built solutions and many others. This made it
extremely hard and nearly impossible to manage their infrastructure centrally
and ensure reliability and operational effectiveness.

<a class="button button--primary button--lg" href="/files/acs-case-study-your-online.pdf" target="_blank">DOWNLOAD THE CASE STUDY</a>

<h2>Building a Centralised Platform Based on CloudStack</h2>

Your.Online has built a centralized platform powered by CloudStack, Ceph,
TrueNAS and KVM to be utilized by all their hosting brands. The new solution
allowed the company to simplify infrastructure management and have end-to-end
visibility of the processes inside from a single pane of glass.

Your.Online uses BGP, EVPN and VXLAN with CloudStack’s Advanced networking
model. This allows them to scale networks very easily in a redundant and
high-performant way over multiple data centers. This is a built-in functionality
of CloudStack, which when combined with IPv6 support and security groups makes
for a modern and future-proof solution, on which they can continue to invest and
grow.

<h2>Ensuring Reliability in the Long Term</h2>

<img src="/img/imported/85db8d29-cf32-409b-b3b2-1d23df9f598d" width="120px" />
“One of the reasons to centralize on CloudStack is to have one single point of
truth about the utilization of our assets. One overview of the VMs, assets and
capacity utilization. Now we can automate against one platform, and for us, the
main driver to choosing CloudStack was that it is an open-source project
governed by the Apache Software Foundation. We know it is a stable platform both
from a technical and legal perspective. The project will be live in the next ten
years, allowing us to avoid the risk associated with commercial projects -
usually licensing and governance problems.”

<b>- Wido den Hollander, CTO, Your.Online</b>

<br/>
<br/>
<a class="button button--primary button--lg" href="/files/acs-case-study-your-online.pdf" target="_blank">DOWNLOAD THE CASE STUDY</a>

<h2>About Your.Online</h2>

Your.Online is a leading European online services platform supporting businesses
of all sizes in realizing and scaling their online ambitions. The company is a
team of pioneers from all over the world united by the passion of helping
businesses succeed online. Their team consists of local experts providing highly
standardized managed services to high-intent customers to reach their full
online potential.

In building a future of more online possibilities, they focus on using
climate-friendly data centers, use highly efficient hardware, continuous focus
on further optimization of their infrastructure, prolonging the use of servers
as much as possible and professionally recycling the ones that are no longer
functional. All these priorities create both business value and sustainable
impact.

<h2>About Apache CloudStack</h2>

Apache CloudStack is an open-source cloud management solution designed to deploy
and manage large networks of virtual machines, as a highly available, highly
scalable Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud computing platform. CloudStack
is used by a number of service providers to offer public cloud services, and by
many companies to provide an on-premises (private) cloud offering, or as part of
a hybrid cloud solution.
