---
layout: post
title: 1 Week to Go - CloudStack European User Group - May 4th, 2023
authors: [ivet]
tags: [news]
slug: cloudstack-european-user-group-may1
---

<a href="/blog/cloudstack-european-user-group-may1"><img src="/img/imported/59255fe4-a752-4813-bb46-61a1089ace99" width= "750" height = "393" /></a>

The **European CloudStack Community** is counting down the days until CloudStack
European User Group 2023. The event will be taking place in London, in the
Gandhi Room at Cifas, Tavistock Square, 7-12 Lynton House, **London**, WC1H 9LT.

Join technical talks, user stories, new features, integrations presentations and more!

Become part of the CSEUG on May 4th, 2023!

<a class="button button--primary" href="https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/cloudstack-european-user-group-2023-tickets-513821653397" >REGISTER FOR FREE</a>

<!-- truncate -->

<h4>Agenda:</h4>


12:00 - 12:15 - Welcome, Giles Sirett, Chairman, CloudStack European User Group


12:15 - 12:45 - What’s new at CloudStack 4.18, Giles Sirett


12:55 - 13:25 - CloudStack Monitoring, Lucian Burlacu, ShapeBlue


13:35 - 14:05 - News about LINBIT SDS & CloudStack, Philipp Reisner, LINBIT


14:05 - 14:30 - Coffee Break


14:30 - 15:00 - Re-using old hardware, thus saving money and the environment, Wido den Hollander, Your.Online


15:10- 15:40 - Network Service Chaining in Core and Edge Zones, Alexandre Mattioli, ShapeBlue


15:50 - 16:20 - A proposal - make changes in Apache CloudStack faster and low risk with vendor CI systems, Alex Ivanov, Niki Tenev, StorPool


16:30 - 17:00 - Dimsi and Backroll : What’s new/next release, Pierre Charton, Pierre de La Ville and Ousmane Diarra, Dimsi


<h4>Meet the Speakers:</h4>


**Giles Sirett**

Giles is a committer, PMC member of the Apache CloudStack project and Chairman
of the European CloudStack User Group. He is also CEO & founder of ShapeBlue,
the leading independent CloudStack integrator & consultancy. He has worked with
many high-profile organisations, helping them strategise, design and implement
CloudStack based clouds. Giles is an active contributor to the Apache CloudStack
project and has spoken at all CloudStack Collaboration conferences, Linuxcon,
and other events.

**Lucian Burlacu**

Lucian is a long-time sysadmin and Apache CloudStack user and contributor. He has
a background in hosting, virtualisation and datacentre operations, but is now
working full time on CloudStack.

**Phillip Reisner**

Philipp Reisner is founder and CEO of LINBIT in Vienna/Austria. His professional
career has been dominated by developing DRBD, a storage replication for Linux.
Today he leads a company of about 30 employees with locations in Vienna, Austria
and Portland, Oregon.

**Wido den Hollander**

Wido den Hollander is the CTO at Your.online. Wido has been a part of the
CloudStack community since 2012. Ever since he has contributed various parts of
code like Ceph/RBD, IPv6, KVM and many other parts.

**Alexandre Mattioli**

Alexandre Mattioli is a highly experienced Infrastructure Architect who has been
working with Apache CloudStack since 2015, he has designed, built and operated
one of the largest ACS clouds in existence and led a team to design and
productise many diverse solutions on top of ACS. He's currently a Cloud
Architect at ShapeBlue.

**Alex Ivanov**

Alex Ivanov is the Product Lead at StorPool Storage and is responsible for the
product strategy and tactics at the company. He has experience in the storage
market and a deep understanding of the needs and priorities of businesses
managing large-scale clouds to run diverse, mission-critical workloads. At
StorPool, he works closely with the team to evolve the StorPool primary storage
platform and expand its capabilities and usefulness for various use cases. His
goal - ensure StorPool cost-effectively delivers above and beyond what is
possible with other primary storage products to help customers achieve their
commercial and technical goals.

**Niki Tenev**

Niki is a Solutions Architect at StorPool Storage. He worked as a System
Administrator for a decade, and later on, his interest and career gradually
shifted to business and product development. Together with the StorPool team,
Niki helps companies build resilient and agile clouds that fit the needs of
their specific projects. In his spare time, Niki practices the technique of
folding clothes while people are still in them (a.k.a. Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu).

**Pierre Charton**

Pierre is in charge of Backroll integration inside CloudStack for DIMSI. Pierre
has a proven track record of successful c# and Java projects. When not playing
with his keyboard, Pierre is surfing, WingFoiling or bodyboarding on the
Brittany coast.

**The event will happen on May 4th, starting at 12pm GMT and finishing at 5pm GMT.**
