source/contribute.html.markdown, before:

---
title: Apache CloudStack Getting Involved
---

<div class="row">

<div class="col-lg-12">

<div class="page-header">

<h1 id="indicators">Apache CloudStack: Getting Involved</h1>

</div>

</div>

</div>

Interested in helping out with Apache CloudStack? Great! We welcome participation from anybody willing to work [The Apache Way](http://theapacheway.com/) and make a contribution. 

Note that you **do not have to be a developer** in order to contribute to Apache CloudStack. We need folks to help with documentation, translation, promotion, and having someone with snazzy Web design skills would not be a bad thing! Want to give a talk about Apache CloudStack, or even organize a CloudStack event? [We're all ears &ndash; join us on the Marketing list and we'll help you get started](/mailing-lists.html)!

Developers, of course, are also welcome. See the [Developer Resources](/developers.html) page!

If you just want to report a bug, that's easily done in our [Jira bug tracking tool](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CLOUDSTACK).

## Where To Ask For Help

Need some help getting started? Feel free to ask on the [mailing list](/mailing-lists.html) or find us on one of the following IRC channels on irc.freenode.net:

* \#cloudstack - General Apache CloudStack conversation and end user support 
* \#cloudstack-dev - Development discussions 
* \#cloudstack-meeting - Weekly and ad-hoc meeting room for the Apache CloudStack community

Commit message:

issues have moved to github

source/contribute.html.markdown, after:

---
title: Apache CloudStack Getting Involved
---

<div class="row">

<div class="col-lg-12">

<div class="page-header">

<h1 id="indicators">Apache CloudStack: Getting Involved</h1>

</div>

</div>

</div>

Interested in helping out with Apache CloudStack? Great! We welcome participation from anybody willing to work [The Apache Way](http://theapacheway.com/) and make a contribution. 

Note that you **do not have to be a developer** in order to contribute to Apache CloudStack. We need folks to help with documentation, translation, promotion, and having someone with snazzy Web design skills would not be a bad thing! Want to give a talk about Apache CloudStack, or even organize a CloudStack event? [We're all ears &ndash; join us on the Marketing list and we'll help you get started](/mailing-lists.html)!

Developers, of course, are also welcome. See the [Developer Resources](/developers.html) page!

If you just want to report a bug, that's easily done in our [github project issues list](https://github.com/apache/cloudstack/issues). Go there and click [new issue](https://github.com/apache/cloudstack/issues/new/choose).

## Where To Ask For Help

Need some help getting started? Feel free to ask on the [mailing list](/mailing-lists.html) or find us on one of the following IRC channels on irc.freenode.net:

* \#cloudstack - General Apache CloudStack conversation and end user support 
* \#cloudstack-dev - Development discussions 
* \#cloudstack-meeting - Weekly and ad-hoc meeting room for the Apache CloudStack community
